# Biometrics Project: Face Recognition Attendance
In my project, I am focusing on the simple way in which an algorithm detects and recognises faces. The working of the project is as follows:
We Run the program and firstly, it starts encoding the faces present in a folder in the local machine. Then it opens the Webcam to capture the image of the face that is to be recognised. Following this, after some backend work, it tells us who the face belongs to. The only problem with the system is that it might not necessarily work in the case of identical twins and siblings having very similar facial features, as it recognises based on the Face Encoding numbers. After succesfully recognising the face it enters the entry in a .csv file.
### Back-end working:
The webcam takes a picture of the face that is to be recognised, and our program converts the face into 128 numbers of Face Encoding. These 128 numbers are obtained from different facial features like face contouring, distance between eyes etc.
On the other hand, we have a few datasets, all of which are faces that are converted to Face Encoding numbers. 
After the webcam takes the picture, it converts the image to Face Encoded numbers and then compares it to each of the image present in datasets that we have. Whichever image has the least difference with the Captured image, is shown to be the result. After doing that successfully it updates the .csv file with the date and time the face has been detected. It doesn't keep updating the .csv file in order to not enter duplicate values.
This way, our program detects and recognises faces and marks attendance.
